---
tags: [momentum, impuse, average force, baseball]
---

8.8 **Force of a Baseball Swing**. A baseball has mass $0.148 kg$.
(a) If the velocity of a pitched ball has a magnitude of $43.5 m/s$ and the batted ball's velocity is $60.0 m/s$ in the opposite direction, find the magnitude of *the change in momentum* of the ball and of the impulse applied to it by the bat.
>Solution
$P = 15.3 kg\cdot m/s$

(b) If the ball remains in contact with the bat for $2.40 ms$, find the magnitude of _the average force_ applied by the bat.
>Solution
$F = 6382.5N$

8.14 Starting $t=0s$, a horizontal net force $\vec F = (0.275 N/s) \hat i + (-0.460N/s^2)t^2 \hat j$ is applied to a bos that has an initial momentum $p=(-3.10kg \cdot m/s)\hat i + (3.85kg \cdot m/s)\hat j$. What is the momentum of the box at $t = 2.15 s$?
>Solution
$p_x,p_y = -2.46, 2.33 kg \cdot m/s$

8.16 A $64.5 kg$ astronaut is doing a repair in space on the orbiting space station. She throws a $2.35 kg$ tool away from her at $3.50 m/s$ relative to the space station.
(a) With what speed will she begin to move?
>Solution
According to **Conservation of Momentum**
$v=0.128 m/s$

(b) In what direction will she begin to move?
>Solution
She will move **opposite** to the direction in which she throws the tool

8.33 A $15.0 kg$ fish swimming at $1.10 m/s$ suddenly gobbles up a $4.30 kg$ fish that is initially stationary. Neglect any drag effects of the water.

8.35 In July 2005, NASA's "Deep Impact" mission crashed a $372 kg$ probe directly onto the surface of the comet Tempel 1, hitting the surface at $37000 km/h$ relative to the surface. The original speed of the comet at that time was about $40000 km/h$, and its mass was estimated to be in the range $(0.10-2.5) \times 10^{14}kg$. Use the smallest value of the estimated mass.
(a) What change in the comet's velocity did this collision produce?
>Solution
$|\Delta v| = 1.4 \times 10^{-6} km/h$

(b) Suppose this comet were to hit the earth at $40000 km/h$ and fuse with it. By how much would it change our planet's velocity? (The mass of the earth is $5.97 \times 10^{24} kg$.)
>Solution
$|\Delta v| = 6.7\times 10^{-8} km/h$
Todo
